New advanced tutorial: "Setting-up a Robot Simulation (Webots)" (#2156)
ros2/ros2_documentation: source/Tutorials/Simulators/Webots/Setting-up-a-Robot-Simulation-Webots.rst

        sudo apt install ros-{DISTRO}-webots-ros2-driver

   .. group-tab:: Windows

      .. code-block:: console

        # Install webots_ros2_driver and dependencies
        cd \dev_ws
        pip install rosinstall_generator
        rosinstall_generator webots_ros2_driver --deps --exclude-path=C:\dev\ros2_{DISTRO} > deps.repos
        vcs import src < deps.repos

        # Build the packages
        colcon build

        # Source this workspace
        call install\local_setup.bat

.. note::

    If you want to install the whole ``webots_ros2`` package, follow these `instructions <https://github.com/cyberbotics/webots_ros2/wiki/Getting-Started>`_.

Tasks
-----

1 Create the package structure
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Let's organize the code in a custom ROS 2 package.
Create a new package named ``my_package`` from the ``src`` folder of your ROS 2 workspace.

.. tabs::

   .. group-tab:: Linux

      .. code-block:: console

        cd ~/dev_ws/src
        ros2 pkg create --build-type ament_python --node-name my_robot_driver my_package --dependencies rclpy geometry_msgs webots_ros2_driver

   .. group-tab:: Windows

      .. code-block:: console

        cd \dev_ws\src

>         ros2 pkg create --build-type ament_python --node-name my_robot_driver my_package --dependencies rclpy geometry_msgs webots_ros2_driver

Reviewer: This command is exactly the same as the Linux version.  The only real difference is in how to `cd` into the directory.  You could just say something like "change directory into src", and then just have the same command for all platforms.  But I don't feel strongly about it, so if you think the tabs here are better that's OK with me.

> The ``--node-name my_robot_driver`` option should create a ``my_robot_driver.py`` template Python plugin in the ``my_package`` subfolder that you will modify later.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The ``--node-name my_robot_driver`` option will create a ``my_robot_driver.py`` template Python plugin in the ``my_package`` subfolder that you will modify later.
```

.. note::

    If you want to install Webots manually, you can download it `here <https://github.com/cyberbotics/webots/releases/latest>`_.

Then, open a second terminal and send a command with:

.. code-block:: console

            ros2 topic pub /cmd_vel geometry_msgs/Twist  "linear: { x: 0.1 }"

The robot is now moving forward.

.. image:: Image/Robot_moving_forward.png

At this point, the robot is able to blindly follow your motor commands.
But it will eventually bump into the wall as you order it to move forwards.

.. image:: Image/Robot_colliding_wall.png

To prevent this, let's use the sensors of the robot to detect the obstacles and avoid them.
Close the Webots window, this should also shutdown your ROS nodes started from the launcher.
Close also the topic command with ``Ctrl+C`` in the second terminal.

8 Updating my_robot.urdf
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

You have to modify the URDF file in order to enable the sensors.
In ``my_robot.urdf`` add the following content inside the ``<webots>`` tag beside the already existing ``<plugin>`` tag:

.. literalinclude:: Code/my_robot_with_sensors.urdf
    :language: xml
    :dedent: 8

>     :lines: 4-15

Reviewer: Explaining how to modify the URDF file this way is a little awkward.  It might be easier to show the entire contents that the file should contain at this point, and just say "replace the whole contents of `my_robot_with_sensors.urdf`".  But this is subjective, so you can take or leave this suggestion.

The ROS 2 interface uses the standard parameters in the ``<ros>`` tags to enable the **DistanceSensor** nodes and name their topics.

9 Creating a ROS node to avoid obstacles
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

The robot will use a standard ROS node to detect the wall and send motor commands to avoid it.
In the ``my_package/my_package/`` folder, create a file named ``obstacle_avoider.py`` with this code:

.. literalinclude:: Code/obstacle_avoider.py
    :language: python

This node will create a publisher for the command and subscribe to the sensors topics here:

.. literalinclude:: Code/obstacle_avoider.py
    :language: python
    :dedent: 8
    :lines: 14-17

> When a measure is received from the left sensor it will be copied to a member field:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When a measurement is received from the left sensor it will be copied to a member field:
```

.. literalinclude:: Code/obstacle_avoider.py
    :language: python
    :dedent: 4
    :lines: 19-20

> Finally, a message will be sent to the ``/cmd_vel`` topic when the measure of the right sensor is received.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Finally, a message will be sent to the ``/cmd_vel`` topic when a measurement from the right sensor is received.
```

The ``command_message`` will register at least a forward speed in ``linear.x`` in order to make the robot move when no obstacle is detected.
If any of the two sensors detect an obstacle, ``command_message`` will also register a rotational speed in ``angular.z`` in order to make the robot turn right.

.. literalinclude:: Code/obstacle_avoider.py
    :language: python
    :dedent: 4
    :lines: 22-32

10 Updating setup.py and robot_launch.py
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

You have to modify these two other files to launch your new node.

> Edit ``setup.py`` and replace ``'console_scripts'`` with:

Reviewer: Instead of replacing the earlier `my_robot_driver.py`, you could just append to it.  That way they would both be available.

.. literalinclude:: Code/setup_sensor.py
    :language: python
    :dedent: 8
    :lines: 24-26

This will add an entry point for the ``obstacle_avoider`` node.

> Go to the file ``robot_launch.py`` and replace ``def generate_launch_description():`` with:

Reviewer: Instead of completely replacing the original launch file, you could create a new one.  That way they both will be available.

(if you take this suggestion, remember to update the text below to use the correct launch file)

Author: The main idea in the tutorial is first to introduce the actuators and then the sensors. Thus the "2nd" launcher is considered as an upgrade as both devices types (actuators and sensors) are used.

So we prefer to replace the launcher and not create a new one in the tutorial.
